# 3.1 Testing for Function and Robustness

## Criteria To Assess

<table><thead><tr><th width="109">Ref. No.</th><th width="139">Criterion</th><th width="290">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>3</td><td><strong>Interactions (world)</strong></td><td>The world needs to be able to sustain the actions of the eco system on its own, changing the world design with some actions made by both the player and the machine. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#how-the-creatures-interact-with-the-world">How the creatures interact with the world</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td><strong>Interactions (player)</strong></td><td>The player needs to be able to interact with the world in a fluid manner <del>to add the things from the implementation bar.</del></td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#interactions">Interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Camera </td><td>There needs to be a locked position camera that doesn't lose focus of the main screen and therefore keeps the fish in view for the player. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#camera-system">Camera System</a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>World design</td><td>The world design should be simple so it can run on low end devices but also be easy to differentiate what is background and what is player.</td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">World design</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Collisions</td><td>The animals need to collide with the plants and world, the player can't place entities inside each other. This is important as it makes the game a little more realistic and helps the immersion. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#animal-interactions">Animal interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Collisions</td><td>Building off this, it will be less so the different animals that need to interact and more so the player and the point system and possibly a "hunter" enemy. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#animal-interactions">Animal interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Controls</td><td>The controls will be a simple WASD to move the camera, mouse to click and place and Q or E to rotate.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Controls</td><td>Again building off my original idea, instead of WASD to move the camera it should move the player character, with Q and E no longer being necessary. </td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Criterion 3: Interactions (world)

The function of testing criterion three is to see how the world handles interaction from both the player and the computer. It should be able to run as expected, causing the expected changes on any device in any situation.

To test this I loaded my game in many different sizes, zooming in and out and such controls from the player, mainly testing and putting a strain on the games html and the canvas function.&#x20;

* When loading the game as its own tab, it functions as expected- the game loads in a resolution that fits the screen, leaving&#x20;
