# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* **Death Loop -->** If the player dies in the centre they will repeatedly die, getting stuck in a loop. The only way to escape this is to move the second the game starts which is rather difficult for most players. Occasionaly the player can die in the same pixels the hunter spawns on in which case the only way to escape the loop is by restarting the game by reloading the webpage which ruins the immersion.&#x20;
* **Interactions with the World -->** Some system that the computer would handle in the background to flesh the game out and fill the screen more could be useful. This could have been done with some form of kelp forest or moving fish that were not under the players control.&#x20;
* **Save System + Help System -->** This was something that I would of learnt and implemented had I had enough time to do so and also had the knowledge. A basic system of saving that let the player score their all time high score and a help system that would have let them see little tips when they started playing.&#x20;
* **List of characters -->** Whilst initially designed for my original code, a list of characters would still help the modern game. I beleive that a brief description of each character in a seperate location opened by a button would have been easy to add and would have added some connection to the figures whilst also showing a new player which to avoid / which to pickup, especially helpful for the younger player.&#x20;
* **Browser based -->** If I wanted to expand the game more, I feel that making it a download would be the best option. The game on browser is limited in size and functionality whereas on a download the game could be spread further through distribution methods and I would have more room to expand the game.&#x20;
* **Modular code -->** The way the code is laid out is mostly modular and linear. However, in certain locations, I have gone back and implemented something and done it outside of the area where the rest of the similiar things have been placed, something that would be a quick fix in future.&#x20;

## Maintenance

Maintainability is a software engineering feature that refers to the ease with which a software system or application can be kept running and maintained over its entire lifecycle. It is a critical aspect of software development as it makes sure that the code that has been worked for stays relevant and useful over both the short and long term. This means that the programmer has done all they can to ensure libraries used will remain available, links will not close randomly, servers used will stay up, etc.&#x20;

### Short term maintenance

Short-term maintenance in software development refers to the activities and practices that are focused on addressing immediate and often urgent issues, such as bug fixes, quick updates and minor improvements often made to keep the software operational and as intended. This is important as these changes should not take a toll on the developer as they are small updates solely designed to keep everything running smoothly and as intended.&#x20;

Examples of this could be noticing a misspelling in my game, realising that something is incorrectly placed on the screen or even seeing something has been coloured correctly / is missing.&#x20;

Two big features that I have aimed to implement into my game would be commenting and modularity. Both of these features help the progammer to create code that is easy to read for any who may wish to read it, whilst being especially easy for a programmer who may be working in many areas at once to come back to an area and rapidly see what needs to be changed / fixed. Modularity is a vital part of p5.Js as it relies on everything being laid out in modular sections such as "draw" or "setup" which massively helped me keep everything in as smooth an order as possible. However, as seen by one of my current limitations, as I progressed through my code I lost this focus meaning that some areas of my code should be placed differently compared to where they are, something that I believe would be a short term fix and could even improve the speed of the game / reduce confusion.&#x20;

### Long term maintenance

Long term mainenance is focussed primarily on the long term lifespan of the software, in my case my game. This is where features such as optimal performance tuning and security comes into play. Features like these ensure that my game will remain active for a long time, as it is easy to run thanks to my efforts into making the game able to be ran on even the lowest quality devices. Security is a large aspect of the webpage being maintained, as if it was constantly bombarded with cyber attacks whilst having weak security it would constantly have to be taken down. Thanks to the fact I made a small game that is protected by Replits https badge I have a webpage that only accepts secure connections and that is hopefully no target for any harrasment from external sources. &#x20;

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

**Death Loop -->** This should be a smaller fix. I would need to reset the position of the fish during the game over screen to an x y coordinates that correlate to the starting position.&#x20;

**List of characters -->** This would have been a brief little fix as I would have created the menu screen I had been thinking about for a long period. One of the buttons in the menu would have created a new background to overlay the rest of the screen, displaying text on this screen and a little image of each of the characters.&#x20;

**Modular code -->** This is a short term fix as it would just be copy pasting code from its current location to the location it should be, the only difficulty being making sure that the variables are changed from local to global in areas where it is applicable.&#x20;

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

**Interactions with the World -->** This would have taken a long time to implement as I would have had to learn a more detailed character modelling system, whilst then learning figure rigging to make it move organically, whilst also staying inside my low requirements goal.&#x20;

**Save System + Help System -->** This is a long term fix as to create a save system would have required a completely new system that I had never experienced before, including frontend and backend development and account creation and saving on a web service. This would have severely taken from the time I could commit elsewhere and therefore I feel I made the correct choice in not adding it.&#x20;

**Browser based -->** This is a long term fix as it would require a complete overall of the system, as the coding system (p5.js) is not native to code. Because of this, I would have either had to re-code the p5 libraries as my own or re code the entire project into javascript so that the files could be distributed independently of a browser.&#x20;
