# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Implementation system

I believe a simple system will be best, allowing for a large player base that will include the PEGI rating I was going for, a 3 (possibly a 7). It will need to be simple for me to code correctly and also for the ease of the players. I believe a simple bar along the bottom of the screen will be the best option, with a menu system for the options between fauna or flora. This will keep the game screen looking simple and make sure that the main focus is on the ecosystem.

### Camera System

As of right now I believe the best camera option would be a stationary camera, set to be in the sky over the area the player chooses. This would ensure that there were no problems with the camera "losing" the main focus or the player getting lost with the camera and missing something important.&#x20;

On the other hand, I believe a good option could be a camera that could be moved around with a simple "WASD" movement system. This would allow for a much larger scale map, and possibly a wider variety in the amount of ways the game could be played. Whilst I believe this to be the best option in terms of how it would impact the game and the player, I believe it will make a difficult situation for me to code. The problems could be: An incorrect perspective if the camera moved away from an object could create a displeasing visual for the player, the world would have to be larger creating more potential area for glitches, animals would have to interact independently of where the camera is which means a potentially more demanding game, as things will have to being loaded off screen.&#x20;

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
