# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="109">Ref. No.</th><th width="139">Criterion</th><th width="290">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Implementing</td><td>A simple feature that will allow the player to see what they can add to the world and what is locked.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">Mechanics (implementation system)</a></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Model design</td><td>A low poly design for each thing implemented, either world plant or animal. Low poly means that it will have a low polygon count, implying simple textures and shapes. </td><td><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">Research (world design)</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Interactions (world)</td><td>The world needs to be able to sustain the actions of the eco system on its own, changing the world design with some actions made by both the player and the machine. </td><td><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#how-the-creatures-interact-with-the-world">How the creatures interact with the world</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Interactions (player)</td><td>The player needs to be able to interact with the world in a fluid manner to add the things from the implementation bar. This was shown to be important in my research in <a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">1.2</a>, as people need to stay entertained. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#interactions">Interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Camera </td><td>There needs to be a camera that can be moved around the world, with the ability to rotate. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#camera-system">Camera System</a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>World design</td><td>A simple flat world that gives the player control over the placement of rocks, water and plant.</td><td><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">World design</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Collisions</td><td>The animals need to collide with the plants and world, the player can't place entities inside each other. This is important as it makes the game a little more realsitic and helps the immersion. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#animal-interactions">Animal interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Controls</td><td>The controls will be a simple WASD to move the camera, mouse to click and place and Q or E to rotate. As I learnt from my research in <a href="1.1-problem-identification.md">1.1</a>, large quantities of people playing games are on PC, and so easy to recognise controls will help. </td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

```
                                                                 |
```

### Non-functional

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Ref. No.</th><th width="134">Criterion</th><th width="270">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>9</td><td>Performance</td><td>The game needs to run smoothly to give an enjoyable experience, at roughly 30 fps to ensure </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>PEGI</td><td>The game will be at maximum a PEGI 7, due to the animals dying. Nothing too graphic. This will mean my game is available to most. </td><td><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi">PEGI</a></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>Save system</td><td>A system to save the game and score. Enables better replay ability. Allows players to play the game whenever they want at a leisurely pace. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Point system</td><td>A system to earn points in the game and save it after, creates a sense of competition. Also makes it possible for competition between friends or possibly online. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Doesn't crash</td><td>The game runs smoothly and doesn't crash easily, meaning the player doesn't have to worry about being interuppted or losing progress. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Help system</td><td>A simple help system to give hints and tips to the player based on what they are doing. <a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">1.2</a> showed me the importance of the player being supported and assisted in playing the game. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#help-system">Help</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### UX / UI

<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Ref. No.</th><th width="135">Criterion</th><th width="270">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>15</td><td>Map</td><td>A small image of the world, as pixels- means the image will be small and easy to display, with the animals as little dots. </td><td><a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#map-and-manager">Map and manager</a></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>List of creatures</td><td>A log of currently owned animals and the "shop" with all the creatures. This is where the player will add creatures and plants from- the implementation bar will display the reccomended additions. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>Tasks</td><td>A simple tasks system that will give the player a goal that if completed will reward them. Will start in a tutorial phase then will be intermittent throughout the game</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Menu

<table><thead><tr><th width="107">Ref. No.</th><th width="140">Criterion</th><th width="271">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>18</td><td>A Title </td><td>A place for the player to see their game and a simple title card. Valuable as it gives the player a space to relax and think about the game both before and after the game. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>A new game or load game </td><td>A place beneath the title for the player to choose to either load the game or to create a new save file. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></td></tr><tr><td>20</td><td>An information tab</td><td>A tab that will show the player a simple guide, a place for new players to look and see a few tips on how to get started.</td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>A settings tab</td><td>A tab to adjust a few settings ie. the volume and brightness. Also a place to view the default controls. </td><td><a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

