# Revised Success Criteria

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="109">Ref. No.</th><th width="139">Criterion</th><th width="290">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td><del>Implementing</del> </td><td><del>A simple feature that will allow the player to see what they can add to the world and what is locked.</del> </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">Mechanics (implementation system</a>)</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td><strong>Model design</strong></td><td>A low poly design for each thing implemented, either world plant or animal. Low poly means that it will have a low polygon count, implying simple textures and shapes. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">Research (world design)</a></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td><strong>Interactions (world)</strong></td><td>The world needs to be able to sustain the actions of the eco system on its own, changing the world design with some actions made by both the player and the machine. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#how-the-creatures-interact-with-the-world">How the creatures interact with the world</a></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td><strong>Interactions (player)</strong></td><td>The player needs to be able to interact with the world in a fluid manner to add the things from the implementation bar.</td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#interactions">Interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td><del>Camera</del> </td><td><del>There needs to be a camera that can be moved around the world, with the ability to rotate.</del> </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#camera-system">Camera System</a></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Camera </td><td>There needs to be a locked position camera that doesn't lose focus of the main screen and therefore keeps the fish in view for the player. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#camera-system">Camera System</a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td><del>World design</del></td><td><del>A simple flat world that gives the player control over the placement of rocks, water and plant.</del></td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">World design</a></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>World design</td><td>The world design should be simple so it can run on low end devices but also be easy to differentiate what is background and what is player.</td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#world-design-and-art-style">World design</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Collisions</td><td>The animals need to collide with the plants and world, the player can't place entities inside each other. This is important as it makes the game a little more realistic and helps the immersion. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#animal-interactions">Animal interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Collisions</td><td>Building off this, it will be less so the different animals that need to interact and more so the player and the point system and possibly a "hunter" enemy. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#animal-interactions">Animal interactions</a></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Controls</td><td>The controls will be a simple WASD to move the camera, mouse to click and place and Q or E to rotate.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Controls</td><td>Again building off my original idea, instead of WASD to move the camera it should move the player character, with Q and E no longer being necessary. </td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Non-functional

<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Ref. No.</th><th width="134">Criterion</th><th width="270">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>9</td><td>Performance</td><td>The game needs to run smoothly to give an enjoyable experience, at roughly 30 fps to ensure a smooth experience. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td><del>PEGI</del></td><td><del>The game will be at maximum a PEGI 7, due to the animals dying. Nothing too graphic. This will mean my game is available to most.</del> </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi">PEGI</a></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>PEGI</td><td>The game will be a PEGI rating of 3, with there being no violence and the game just ending when collision occurs, rather than there being anything visible.</td><td><a href="../analysis/1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi">PEGI</a></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>Save system</td><td>A system to save the game and score. Enables better replay ability. Allows players to play the game whenever they want at a leisurely pace. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Point system</td><td>A system to earn points in the game and save it after, creates a sense of competition. Also makes it possible for competition between friends or possibly online. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Doesn't crash</td><td>The game runs smoothly and doesn't crash easily, meaning the player doesn't have to worry about being interrupted or losing progress. </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Help system</td><td>A simple help system to give hints and tips to the player based on what they are doing.</td><td><a href="../analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#help-system">Help</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Menu

<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Ref. No.</th><th width="135">Criterion</th><th width="270">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>15</td><td><del>Map</del></td><td><del>A small image of the world, as pixels- means the image will be small and easy to display, with the animals as little dots.</del> </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#map-and-manager">Map and manager</a></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Map</td><td>I am currently without need of a map as the screen is the entire size of the players view, and so a map will not be needed. </td><td><a href="../analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md#map-and-manager">Map and manager</a></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td><del>List of creatures</del></td><td><del>A log of currently owned animals and the "shop" with all the creatures. This is where the player will add creatures and plants from- the implementation bar will display the recommended additions.</del> </td><td></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>List of creatures</td><td>I will move this to a simple menu screen as there is only the player, the point and the hunter</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td><del>Tasks</del></td><td><del>A simple tasks system that will give the player a goal that if completed will reward them. Will start in a tutorial phase then will be intermittent throughout the game</del></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Tasks</td><td>There will only be one task in the game, which is collect points whilst not dying. Because of this I feel pop-up tasks are not necessary. </td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
